bluetti2mqtt/DOCS.md, before:

# Bluetti2MQTT

MQTT bridge between Bluetti and Home Assistant.

This is a simple Home Assistant add-on for [bluetti_mqtt](https://github.com/warhammerkid/bluetti_mqtt).

This add-on was created as an easy method to get Bluetti data into Home Assistant, without having to setup [bluetti_mqtt](https://github.com/warhammerkid/bluetti_mqtt) on a separate device.

___

## Configuration

### Optional: `mqtt_host`

> The MQTT host.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Optional: `mqtt_port`

> The MQTT port.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Optional: `mqtt_username`

> The MQTT username.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Optional: `mqtt_password`

> The MQTT password.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Required: `mode`

> Choose from three modes.

> - `mqtt` - Monitor & control Bluetti device(s) via MQTT.

> - `discovery` - Used for reverse engineering, see [here](https://github.com/warhammerkid/bluetti_mqtt#reverse-engineering).

> - `logger` - Used for reverse engineering, see [here](https://github.com/warhammerkid/bluetti_mqtt#reverse-engineering).

>>> Note: `discovery` & `logger` modes will output log files to your Home Assistant /share/bluetti2mqtt directory & will NOT publish messages to the MQTT broker.

### Required: `poll_sec`

> Polling interval in seconds.

### Required: `ha_config`

> What fields to configure in Home Assistant - defaults to most fields ("normal"), see [here](https://github.com/warhammerkid/bluetti_mqtt#home-assistant-integration).

> - `normal` - MOST sensors & commands are set up with MQTT discovery.

> - `none` - MQTT discovery disabled.

>>> Note - if MQTT discovery was previously enabled, you will need to clear your broker's retained messages to remove the sensor(s).

> - `advanced` - MORE sensors & commands are set up with MQTT discovery (but not all).

### Required: `bt_mac`

> The MAC address(es) of the Bluetti devices.  Separate multiple addresses with a single space.

### Required: `scan`

> Enable to scan for nearby devices and display the resulting mac addresses in the log tab.  Copy the address(es) from the log and paste into the corresponding field in the Configuration tab.

### Required: `debug`

> Enable debug mode.  Check the log tab for output.


___

If all goes well, something like the following will be output to the log tab:

```
INFO: Reading configuration settings...
INFO: Starting bluetti-mqtt...
INFO     Connecting to MQTT broker...
INFO     Starting to poll clients...
INFO     Connecting to clients: ['FE:97:60:CD:21:D4']
INFO     Connected to MQTT broker
INFO     Sent discovery message of XXXXX-0000000000000 to Home Assistant
INFO     Connected to device: FE:97:60:CD:21:D4
```
___

## Additional Documentation

For more information, please refer to the following:

- Github repository: [bluetti_mqtt](https://github.com/warhammerkid/bluetti_mqtt)

- DIY Solar Forum: [Monitoring Bluetti Systems](https://diysolarforum.com/threads/monitoring-bluetti-systems.37870/)

Commit message:

Remove (beta) version of Add-on and leave only one

bluetti2mqtt/DOCS.md, after:

# Bluetti2MQTT

## **NOTE: The [bluetti_mqtt](https://github.com/warhammerkid/bluetti_mqtt) repo has not been updated recently and no longer compiles. This addon  now uses a [fork](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313/bluetti2mqtt) by [LzbnAndr313](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313) until the original repo is updated. Please only update to this version if you are experiencing issues or need the additional functonality in the changes above.**

MQTT bridge between Bluetti and Home Assistant.

This is a simple Home Assistant add-on for [bluetti_mqtt](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313/bluetti_mqtt).

This add-on was created as an easy method to get Bluetti data into Home Assistant, without having to setup [bluetti_mqtt](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313/bluetti_mqtt) on a separate device.

___

## Configuration

### Optional: `mqtt_host`

> The MQTT host.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Optional: `mqtt_port`

> The MQTT port.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Optional: `mqtt_username`

> The MQTT username.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Optional: `mqtt_password`

> The MQTT password.  Leave blank if you are using the Mosquitto broker add-on.

### Required: `mode`

> Choose from three modes.

> - `mqtt` - Monitor & control Bluetti device(s) via MQTT.

> - `discovery` - Used for reverse engineering, see [here](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313/bluetti_mqtt#reverse-engineering).

> - `logger` - Used for reverse engineering, see [here](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313/bluetti_mqtt#reverse-engineering).

>>> Note: `discovery` & `logger` modes will output log files to your Home Assistant /share/bluetti2mqtt directory & will NOT publish messages to the MQTT broker.

### Required: `poll_sec`

> Polling interval in seconds.

### Required: `ha_config`

> What fields to configure in Home Assistant - defaults to most fields ("normal"), see [here](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313/bluetti_mqtt#home-assistant-integration).

> - `normal` - MOST sensors & commands are set up with MQTT discovery.

> - `none` - MQTT discovery disabled.

>>> Note - if MQTT discovery was previously enabled, you will need to clear your broker's retained messages to remove the sensor(s).

> - `advanced` - MORE sensors & commands are set up with MQTT discovery (but not all).

### Required: `bt_mac`

> The MAC address(es) of the Bluetti devices.  Separate multiple addresses with a single space.

### Required: `scan`

> Enable to scan for nearby devices and display the resulting mac addresses in the log tab.  Copy the address(es) from the log and paste into the corresponding field in the Configuration tab.

### Required: `debug`

> Enable debug mode.  Check the log tab for output.


___

If all goes well, something like the following will be output to the log tab:

```
INFO: Reading configuration settings...
INFO: Starting bluetti-mqtt...
INFO     Connecting to MQTT broker...
INFO     Starting to poll clients...
INFO     Connecting to clients: ['FE:97:60:CD:21:D4']
INFO     Connected to MQTT broker
INFO     Sent discovery message of XXXXX-0000000000000 to Home Assistant
INFO     Connected to device: FE:97:60:CD:21:D4
```
___

## Additional Documentation

For more information, please refer to the following:

- Github repository: [bluetti_mqtt](https://github.com/LzbnAndr313/bluetti_mqtt)

- DIY Solar Forum: [Monitoring Bluetti Systems](https://diysolarforum.com/threads/monitoring-bluetti-systems.37870/)
